Psalm 120 In my distress I cried unto the Lord, and
he heard me. Deliver my soul, O Lord, from lying lips, and from a deceitful tongue.
What shall be given unto thee, or what shall be done unto thee, thou false tongue? Sharp
arrows of the mighty, with coals of juniper. Woe is me that I sojourn in Misak, that I
dwell in the tents of Kedar. My soul hath long dwelt with him that hateth peace. I am
for peace, but when I speak they are for war. Psalm 121 I will lift up mine eyes unto the
hills, from whence cometh my help. My help cometh from the Lord, which made heaven and
earth. He will not suffer thy foot to be moved. He that keepeth thee will not slumber. Behold,
he that keepeth Israel shall neither slumber nor sleep. The Lord is thy keeper. The Lord
is thy shade upon thy right hand. The sun shall not smite thee by day, nor the moon
by night. The Lord shall preserve thee from all evil. He shall preserve thy soul. The
Lord shall preserve thy going out, and thy coming in, from this time forth, and even
for evermore. Psalm 122 I was glad when they said unto me, Let us go into the house of
the Lord. Our feet shall stand within thy gates, O Jerusalem. Jerusalem is billed as
a city that is compact together whither the tribes go up, the tribes of the Lord, unto
the testimony of Israel, to give thanks unto the name of the Lord. For there are set thrones
of judgment, the thrones of the house of David. Pray for the peace of Jerusalem. They shall
prosper that love thee. Peace be within thy walls, and prosperity within thy palaces.
For my brethren and my companions' sake, I will now say, Peace be within thee. Because
of the house of the Lord, our God, I will seek thy good.
Psalm 123 Unto thee lift I up mine eyes, O thou that dwellest in the heavens. Behold,
as the eyes of servants look unto the hand of their masters, and as the eyes of a maiden
unto the hand of her mistress, so our eyes wait upon the Lord our God, until that he
have mercy upon us. Have mercy upon us, O Lord, have mercy upon us, for we are exceedingly
filled with contempt. Our soul is exceedingly filled with the scorning of those that are
at ease, and with the contempt of the proud. Psalm 124 If it had not been the Lord who
was on our side, now may Israel say, If it had not been the Lord who was on our side
when men rose up against us, then they had swallowed us up quick when their wrath was
kindled against us. Then the waters had overwhelmed us, the stream had gone over our soul. Then
the proud waters had gone over our soul. Blessed be the Lord who hath not given us as a prey
to their teeth. Our soul is escaped as a bird out of the snare of the fowlers. The snare
is broken, and we are escaped. Our help is in the name of the Lord who made heaven and
earth. Psalm 125 They that trust in the Lord shall be as
Mount Zion, which cannot be removed, but abideth for ever. As the mountains are round about
Jerusalem, so the Lord is round about his people from henceforth even for ever. For
the rod of the wicked shall not rest upon the lot of the righteous, lest the righteous
put forth their hands unto iniquity. Do good, O Lord, unto those that be good, and to them
that are upright in their hearts. As for such as turn aside unto their crooked ways, the
Lord shall lead them forth with the workers of iniquity, but peace shall be upon Israel.
Psalm 126 When the Lord turned again the captivity of
Zion, we were like them that dream. Then was our mouth filled with laughter and our tongue
with singing. Then said they among the heathen, The Lord hath done great things for them.
The Lord hath done great things for us, whereof we are glad.
Turn again our captivity, O Lord, as the streams in the south. They that sow in tears shall
reap in joy. He that goeth forth and weepeth, bearing precious seed, shall doubtless come
again with rejoicing, bringing his sheaves with him.
Psalm 127 Except the Lord build the house, they labor
in vain that build it. Except the Lord keep the city, the watchman waketh but in vain.
It is vain for you to rise up early, to sit up late, to eat the bread of sorrows, for
so he giveth his beloved sleep. Lo, children are an heritage of the Lord, and the fruit
of the womb is his reward. As arrows are in the hand of a mighty man,
so are children of the youth. Happy is the man that hath his quiver full of them. They
shall not be ashamed, but they shall speak with the enemies in the gate.
Psalm 128 Blessed is every one that feareth the Lord,
that walketh in his ways. For thou shalt eat the labor of thine hands, happy shalt thou
be, and it shall be well with thee. Thy wife shall be as a fruitful vine by the sides of
thine house, thy children like olive plants round about thy table.
Behold, that thus shall the man be blessed that feareth the Lord. The Lord shall bless
thee out of Zion, and thou shalt see the good of Jerusalem all the days of thy life. Yea,
thou shalt see thy children's children, and peace upon Israel.
Psalm 129 Many a time have they afflicted me from my
youth. May Israel now say, Many a time have they afflicted me from my youth, yet they
have not prevailed against me. The plowers plowed upon my back, they made long their
furrows. The Lord is righteous, he hath cut asunder the cords of the wicked. Let them
all be confounded and turned back that hate Zion. Let them be as the grass upon the housetops,
which withereth afore it groweth up, wherewith the mower filth not his hand, nor he that
findeth sheaves his bosom. Neither do they which go by say, The blessing of the Lord
be upon you, we bless you in the name of the Lord.
Psalm 130 Out of the depths have I cried unto thee, O
Lord. Lord, hear my voice, let thine ears be attentive to the voice of my supplications.
If thou, Lord, shouldst mark iniquities, O Lord, who shall stand? But there is forgiveness
with thee, that thou mayest be feared. I wait for the Lord, my soul doth wait, and in his
word do I hope. My soul waiteth for the Lord, more than they that watch for the morning.
I say, more than they that watch for the morning. Let Israel hope in the Lord, for with the
Lord there is mercy, and with him is plenteous redemption, and he shall redeem Israel from
all his iniquities.
Psalm 131 Lord, my heart is not haughty, nor mine eyes
lofty. Neither do I exercise myself in great matters, or in things too high for me. Surely
I have behaved and quieted myself as a child that is weaned of his mother. My soul is even
as a weaned child. Let Israel hope in the Lord from henceforth and for ever.
Psalm 132 Lord, remember David, and all his afflictions,
how he swear unto the Lord, and vowed unto the mighty God of Jacob. Surely I will not
come into the tabernacle of my house, nor go up into my bed. I will not give sleep to
mine eyes, or slumber to mine eyelids, until I find out a place for the Lord, and habitation
for the mighty God of Jacob. Lo, we heard of it at Ephrata. We found it in the fields
of the wood. We will go into his tabernacles. We will worship at his footstool.
Arise, O Lord, into thy rest, thou and the ark of thy strength. Let thy priests be clothed
with righteousness, and let thy saints shout for joy. For thy servant David's sake, turn
not away the face of thine anointed. The Lord hath sworn in truth unto David. He will not
turn from it. Of the fruit of thy body will I set upon thy throne. If thy children will
keep my covenant, and my testimony that I shall teach them, their children shall also
sit upon thy throne for evermore. For the Lord hath chosen Zion. He hath desired it
for his habitation. This is my rest for ever. Here will I dwell, for I have desired it.
I will abundantly bless her provision. I will satisfy her poor with bread. I will also clothe
her priests with salvation, and her saints shall shout aloud for joy. There will I make
the horn of David to bud. I have ordained a lamp for mine anointed. His enemies will
lie clothed with shame, but upon himself shall his crown flourish. Psalm 133. Behold, how
good and how pleasant it is for brethren to dwell together in unity! It is like the precious
ointment upon the head, that ran down upon the beard, even Aaron's beard, that went down
to the skirts of his garments. As the dew of Hermon, and as the dew that descended upon
the mountains of Zion, for there the Lord commanded the blessing, even life for evermore.
Psalm 134. Behold, bless ye the Lord, all ye servants of the Lord, which by night stand
in the house of the Lord. Lift up your hands in the sanctuary, and bless the Lord, the
Lord that made heaven and earth. Bless thee out of Zion.
Psalm 135. Praise ye the Lord! Praise ye the name of the Lord! Praise him, oh ye servants
of the Lord! Ye that stand in the house of the Lord, in the courts of the house of our
God! Praise the Lord, for the Lord is good. Sing praises unto his name, for it is pleasant.
For the Lord hath chosen Jacob unto himself, and Israel for his peculiar treasure. For
I know that the Lord is great, and that our Lord is above all gods.
Whatsoever the Lord pleased, that he did in heaven, and in earth, in the seas, and all
deep places. He causeth the vapors to ascend from the ends of the earth. He maketh lightnings
for the rain. He bringeth the wind out of his treasuries.
Who smote the firstborn of Egypt, both of man and beast? Who sent tokens and wonders
into the midst of thee, oh Egypt, upon Pharaoh, and upon all his servants? Who smote great
nations, and slew mighty kings? Sihon, king of the Amorites, and all king of Bashan, and
all the kingdoms of Canaan, and gave their land for inheritance, and heritage unto Israel
his people. Thy name, oh Lord, endureth for ever, and thy memorial, oh Lord, throughout
all generations. For the Lord will judge his people, and he will repent himself concerning
his servants. The idols of the heathen are silver and gold,
the work of men's hands. They have mouths, but they speak not. Eyes have they, but they
see not. They have ears, but they hear not, neither is there any breath in their mouths.
They that make them are like unto them, so is every one that trusteth in them.
Bless the Lord, oh house of Israel! Bless the Lord, oh house of Aaron!
Bless the Lord, oh house of Levi! Ye that fear the Lord, bless the Lord!
Blessed be the Lord out of Zion, which dwelleth at Jerusalem. Praise ye the Lord!
Psalm 136 O give thanks unto the Lord, for he is good,
for his mercy endureth for ever. O give thanks unto the God of gods, for his
mercy endureth for ever. O give thanks to the Lord of lords, for his
mercy endureth for ever. To him who alone doth great wonders, for his
mercy endureth for ever. To him that by wisdom made the heavens, for
his mercy endureth for ever. To him that stretched out the earth above
the waters, for his mercy endureth for ever. To him that made great lights, for his mercy
endureth for ever. The sun to rule by day, for his mercy endureth
The moon and stars to rule by night, For his mercy endureth for ever.
To him that smote Egypt in their first born, For his mercy endureth for ever,
And brought out Israel from among them, For his mercy endureth for ever,
With a strong hand and with a stretched out arm, For his mercy endureth for ever.
To him which divided the Red Sea into parts, For his mercy endureth for ever,
And made Israel to pass through the midst of it, For his mercy endureth for ever,
But overthrew Pharaoh and his host in the Red Sea, For his mercy endureth for ever.
To him which led his people through the wilderness, For his mercy endureth for ever.
To him which smote great kings, For his mercy endureth for ever,
And slew famous kings, For his mercy endureth for ever,
Sihon king of the Amorites, For his mercy endureth for ever,
And Og the king of Bashan, For his mercy endureth for ever,
And gave their land for an heritage, For his mercy endureth for ever.
Even an heritage unto Israel, his servant, For his mercy endureth for ever,
Who remembered us in our low estate, For his mercy endureth for ever,
And hath redeemed us from our enemies, For his mercy endureth for ever,
Who giveth food to all flesh, For his mercy endureth for ever,
O give thanks unto the God of heaven, For his mercy endureth for ever.
Psalm 137
By the rivers of Babylon, there we sat down, Yea, we wept, when we remembered Sihon.
We hanged our harps upon the willows, in the midst thereof,
For there they that carried us away captive, Required of us a song,
And they that wasted us, required of us mirth, Saying, Sing us one of the songs of Sihon.
How shall we sing the Lord's song in a strange land?
If I forget thee, O Jerusalem, let my right hand forget her cunning.
If I do not remember thee, let my tongue cleave to the roof of my mouth.
If I prefer not Jerusalem above my chief joy.
Remember O Lord, the children of Edom, in the day of Jerusalem,
Who said, Raise it, raise it, even to the foundation thereof.
O daughter of Babylon, who art to be destroyed, Happy shall he be that rewardeth thee as thou
hast served us.
Happy shall he be that taketh and dasheth thy little ones against the stones.
Psalm 138
I will praise thee with my whole heart.
Before the gods will I sing praise unto thee.
I will worship toward thy holy temple, And praise thy name for thy loving kindness,
And for thy truth, for thou hast magnified Thy word above all thy name.
In the day when I cried, thou answerest me, And strengthenest me with strength in my soul.
All the kings of the earth shall praise thee, O Lord, When they hear the words of thy mouth.
Yea, they shall sing in the ways of the Lord, For great is the glory of the Lord.
Though the Lord be high, yet hath he respect unto the lowly,
But the proud he knoweth afar off.
Though I walk in the midst of trouble, thou wilt revive me,
Thou shalt stretch forth thine hand against the wrath of mine enemies,
And thy right hand shall save me.
The Lord will perfect that which concerneth me.
Thy mercy, O Lord, endureth forever.
Forsake not the works of thine own hands.